# -----------------------------------------------------------------------------

heather: heather heathery

honey: honey honeyed honeysuckle baklava

floral: floral flower flowers flowery blossom fragrant aromatic
perfumed perfume lavender petals rose roses rosewater

citrus: orange oranges orangey mandarins marmalade tangerine lemon
lemonade lemons lemony lime limes limey citric citrus citrusy peel
zest zesty

tropical: melon melons mango papaya tropical aloe cucumber coconut
kiwi honeydew pineapple watermelon

banana: banana bananas esters estery

apple: apple apples pear pears manzanilla cider crisp

stonefruit: apricot apricots nectar nectarine nectarines peach peaches
peachy plum plums

fruit: fruit fruitcake fruitier fruitiness fruits fruity

berry: berries berry blackberries blackberry blueberries blueberry
raspberries raspberry strawberries strawberry cherries cherry currant
currants gooseberries jam jelly juice juicy pomegranate rhubarb
cranberries cranberry pie

raisin: grape grapes grapey sultanas sultana raisin raisins date dates
fig figgy figs prune prunes

wine: madeira port portwood porty wine wines winey marsala burgundy
brandy cognac

sherry: sherried sherry

# -----------------------------------------------------------------------------

hay: hay grass grassiness grassy straw

beer: malt malty maltier maltiest barley beer wheat wheated sourdough
bread bready cracker crackers hops oatmeal pastry popcorn porridge
toast toasted cereal

bakery: graham shortbread cookie cookies cake muffin biscuit biscuits
baked bakery

nutty: almond almonds nut nuts nuttiness nutty peanut peanuts walnut
walnuts cashew cashews pecans seeds

cocoa: cocoa chocolate chocolatey hazelnut hazelnuts mocha fudge

coffee: coffee espresso tea

# -----------------------------------------------------------------------------

chemical: resin tar phenolic ethanol chemical chemicals varnish
synthetic plastic polish naphthalene gunpowder acetone solventy tires
rubber rubbery glue

harsh: harsh harsher harshness hot immature prickling prickly tequilas
teeth young younger rough sharp

# -----------------------------------------------------------------------------

sea: marine maritime fish kelp seashells sea seashore seawater seaweed
ocean oceany salmon

salt: salt salted saltiness saltwater salty salinity brine briney
briny

mineral: mineral minerality stone stones flint flinty gravel

peat: peat peated peatiness peaty matches sulfur sulphur sulphury bog
boggy

dirty: cumin earth earthier earthiness earthy mushroom mushrooms
mushroomy musk musky musty manure damp funk funky garlic moss mossy
onion onions dirt dirty rotten rotting wet wool yeasty

smoke: pipe pipes bonfire incense scorched burn burned burning burns
burnt campfire charred charcoal cigar cigarettes cigars coal embers
fire fires smoke smoked smokey smokier smokiness smoky smoldering
smouldering acrid soot sooty tobacco ash ashy barbecue barbeque bbq
grill grilled mesquite roast roasted

steeped: steeped stewed cooked boiled

meat: beef chicken pork meat meatiness meats meaty ham molasses maple
steak bacon ribs prosciutto salami umami

savory: savor savory savoury

oil: oiled oiliness oils oily

wax: wax waxy

leather: leather leathery

# -----------------------------------------------------------------------------

spice: christmas spice spiced spices spicier spiciest spiciness spicy
cardamom cardamon ginger gingerbread gingery allspice cinnamon clove
cloves nutmeg mace strudel carrot carrots cola

pepper: pepper peppercorns peppered peppers peppery mexican chili
chilis chilli chipotle paprika jalapeno cayenne

camphor: camphor mint minty eucalyptus anise aniseed fennel fresh
menthol liquorice licorice peppermint spearmint

herbal: herbal herbs coriander basil celery oregano parsley rosemary
sage salad thyme vegetal green leafy leaves tomato


# -----------------------------------------------------------------------------

sugar: sugar sugared sugary sweet sweetened sweetens sweeter sweetest
sweetness sweets syrup syrupy

cloying: candied candies candy cloying cloyingly

caramel: caramel caramelised caramels butterscotch

toffee: toffee

vanilla: vanilla

cream: milk milky cream creamier creaminess creamy creme brulee
cheesecake frosting marshmallow marzipan custard

butter: butter buttered buttery

oak: oak oaked oakiness oaky chardonnay

# -----------------------------------------------------------------------------

weak: watery weak sheer bland boring

easy: clean easygoing light medium mellow mild pleasant subdued tame
simple relaxing refreshing gentle approachable

bold: aggressive attack beast bite biting explosion explosive enormous
bomb bold heavier heavy intense monster massive powerful potent
strength strong robust

rich: rich richer richness complex complexity

classy: classic classy elegant

smooth: silky smooth smoother soft softer

# -----------------------------------------------------------------------------

wood: driftwood wood woodiness woods woodspice woody mahogany bark
cedar pine sandalwood sap pith

tannin: astringency astringent tannic tannins dry drying dryness dying

# -----------------------------------------------------------------------------

chewy: chewy thick thicker viscosity viscous

warm: warm warming warms warmth

acid: acid acidic acidity vinegar vinegary sour sourness tart tartness
tarts tang tangy pickled

medicinal: bandages hospital medicinal medicine iodine

bitter: grapefruit bitter bitterness bitters

unpeated: unpeated

matured: matured

metallic: metal metallic copper
